---
Title: Back to cash
layout: default
published: false
---
My first major hurdle on arriving in Japan - after negotiating my way past many barriers et up to prevent the entrance of coronavirus - was finding a way for my employer to pay me. In other words, finding a suitable Japanese bank account into which my monthly salary could be paid. They had kindly provided me with a link to the website of a bank that allowed a foreigner, with no history in Japan, to open an account online。
All should have gone well, but here I hit the bain of many a gaijin, my name. The Japanese, almost universally, have a logical naming system. First a single name for your family and then one to identify you personally, for example Miyazaki Hayao, Osaka Naomi or Watanabe Ken. Straightforward but not of course for many foreigners whose own traditions are more complicated and this is where I fell down.
Although my name, "Francis John Malcolm Davey", honours the names of my grandfathers, the website was not impressed. "You have a space in your middle name" it complained. It had clearly got used to the idea of foreigners having middle names, but only the one. I cunningly wondered if I could enter "Johnmalcolm", but no. This time the complaint was that it did not match the name on my residence card, which of course it did not. Experienced programmers will recognise no. 5 of [Falsehoods Programmers Believe About Names](kalzumeus.com/2010/06/17/falsehoods-programmers-believe-about-names/). So no nice bank account for me.
The immediate solution was to go to the JP Post office in Ayagawa's vast Aeon Mall. Here I could look an actual person in the eye and write my name out for them. To their credit they did not bat an eyelid at my outlandish name, or presumably outlandishly bad Japanese, and opened an account for デイビー　フランセス　ジョン　マルコム (deibii furansesu jon marukomu) - but for at least six months I would be allowed only a cash card. All my dealings, for at least the next half year, would be in cash.
