---
title: en
date: 11 October 2023
layout: post
published: true
---
On the North coast of the island of Amami Oshima, facing out to the East China Sea is the small village of En. Since I am likely to here for a little while, I should give it a proper introduction.

En's inhabitants, or "Encchu" in the local language, seem pretty clear that their village is called "En", but many islanders seem to think otherwise as witness today's conversation on the bus:

> Driver: *doko made* \[where to?\]  
> Me: *En*  
> Driver: *Yen*?  
> Me: *Hai*  

This reminds me of something I had not appreciated before coming to Japan. The currency we call "yen", with the international symbol ￥ is here pronounced "en". Wikipedia suggests to me that the pronunciation "yen" was an older form of "en" which we borrowed into English and never updated to track modern Japanese speech. I have heard it suggested that the same process is at work here. The rest of the island simply hasn't caught up.

En is one of those places that has escaped the notice of the powerful. Far too little has been written about it, still less in English, so that I am left to rely on word of mouth. While my rudimentary Japanese is up to such basic phrases as: "yes, I am taking my dog for a walk"; "yes, my dog has escaped and I am looking for her"; and "thank you for capturing my dog for me"; I am fairly limited in the kinds of questions I can ask about local history. 

and written using the kanji 円, which descends by simplificatoin from an old Chinese character 圓 representing something circular in shape and, presumably because coins were also circular, currency. 

If you are a keen science fiction fan, or have an interest in ships of the world, you may also recognise that 円 is used on many Japanese ships, though this time pronounced "maru". As fans will recall, *Kobayashi Maru* situation was a no-win scenario designed by Starfleet to test its cadest. Captain James T. Kirk being the only person to have successfully completed it, albeit by cheating.



En is small and compact. It is said the houses are so close together you know what your neighbours are having for dinner. Compact, not just because there is little space between the sea and the mountains, but because outside the village lives the *habu*, the most dangerous snake in Japan. Habu are found only in a a few islands from here to Okinawa. They are quite aggressive and venomous. Keeping an area clear of undergrowth is essential if you want to avoid the possibility of running into a habu and then a quick visit to a hospital.

En's main claim to fame is the Kaganbana tunnel through which you can see the Sun set at the right day in Septemeber. At other times it still makes a beautiful picture at sunset. People often come to photograph themselves or their families against the 
